Sometimes, apps have no data to display.
For example, there may be no new messages in someone's email inbox.
So as developers, we need to handle this situation gracefully.
Well-designed apps will even try to make the experience a little bit more pleasant,
would say, a cute graphic for example.
Even better, would be to fill the empty space with
some starter content or advice on how to get started.
This will vary based on what's appropriate for your app.
For now, let's focus on
a very simple empty state that clearly communicates that there were no earthquakes found.
This is much better than having a blank screen.
Now, you're welcome to expand on this and make the empty state
more sophisticated in the future but the question
of whether or not the USGS webserver will ever returns
zero earthquakes is a different story and in any case,
it's ideal for our app to contain logic to handle the scenario if it ever happens.
Fortunately, the Android framework team
already expected that this would be a common use case.
So they exposed a way for developers to set an empty view for ListView,
which will only be displayed whenever there is no data in the list.
Meaning, the adapters dataset is empty.
In this coding task,
you're going to implement this behavior in a quick report app.
The first thing you should do is modify the XML layout for
the earthquake activity to have a ViewGroup that contains two children,
the ListView and a TextView for the EmptyView.
Now, the EmptyView and the ListView should be siblings within the parent view group.
Both siblings should overlap and
the ListView should take up the full height and width the screen,
while the TextView should be centered within the full screen.
Once you've updated the layout, next,
I want you to modify that an earthquake activity Java class,
so that in the onCreate method you set
the EmptyView method on the ListView object and pass in the EmptyView.
Here's the documentation for the setEmptyView method.
What is said, when there are no items in the list,
the Android framework will hide the ListView and make this EmptyView visible.
If there are items, however,
the ListView will be made visible and this EmptyView will be hidden.
All these changes in view visibility are automatically handled for you,
which is pretty sweet.
One more caveat I want to point out is that when you first launch the app,
there's no data yet because we haven't finished loading it.
To avoid having the no earthquakes found
message blink on the screen briefly while the data's being loaded for the first time,
only assign the text in the empty state TextView after the first load is completed,
so here in the onload finished method.
Now, can you think of a way to verify that the empty view works?
Here's a little hint. You'll want to temporarily comment out some code.
Check these boxes when you're done.
Then you can try the bonus challenge.
Do you know of an Android app that tries to make
the empty state be a pleasant user experience?
Go ahead and share a screenshot in the discussion forum link below the quiz.